Reorganize and restructure Organization docs (#2758)
clerkinc/clerk-docs: docs/guides/organizations/configure.mdx

- Manage members (`org:sys_memberships:manage`)
- Read members (`org:sys_memberships:read`)
- Delete organization (`org:sys_profile:delete`)

Learn more about the [Creator role and how to reassign it](/docs/guides/organizations/roles-and-permissions#the-creator-role).

### Allow new members to delete organizations

This setting controls whether organization members can delete organizations.

### Allow new members to delete organizations

By default, any member with the [`org:sys_profile:delete` system permission](/docs/guides/organizations/roles-and-permissions#system-permissions) can delete an organization. You can disable this if you want to prevent accidental data loss or require your own approval process before organizations are removed.

To change this setting:

1. In the Clerk Dashboard, navigate to the [**Organizations Settings**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/~/organizations-settings) page.
1. Toggle **Allow new members to delete organizations**.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This setting only applies to newly created organizations. Existing organizations retain their current deletion settings.

> Learn more about [roles and permissions](/docs/guides/organizations/roles-and-permissions).

Reviewer: This feels out of place? It's already linked under **Default roles**, which feels more natural. Wondering if it's a mistake or here for a reason? @im2nguyen

---
title: Configure Organizations
description: Learn how to configure global organization settings in the Clerk Dashboard, including pricing, membership limits, and optional features.
metadata:
  title: Configure Organizations settings in Clerk Dashboard
---

Global organization settings control how Organizations work across your entire application. These settings determine who can create organizations, how members join them, what roles they receive, and which features are available. You'll configure most of these when you first enable Organizations, though you can adjust them later as your needs evolve.

## Enable Organizations

Organizations are disabled by default. When you enable organizations, Clerk offers two workspace models:

> - **Personal accounts disabled (recommended)**: Every user must belong to an organization. After signing up, users are prompted to create or join an organization through the [session tasks flow](/docs/guides/configure/session-tasks) before they can access your application.

Reviewer 2: handled [4d2de47](https://github.com/clerk/clerk-docs/pull/2758/commits/4d2de4729dfd83c2b9a0c1a01db5ba87f652b7f8)

  > [!IMPORTANT]
  > Personal accounts being disabled by default was released on August 22, 2025. Applications created before this date will not see the **Allow personal accounts** setting, because personal accounts were enabled by default.

- **Personal accounts enabled**: Users can operate in their own individual workspace or join organizations. They start in their personal account and can switch to organizations using the [`<OrganizationSwitcher />`](/docs/reference/components/organization/organization-switcher) component.

> Most B2B and multi-tenant applications disable personal accounts. This ensures proper data isolation and team structure from the start. You should only enable personal accounts if your app serves both individual users and teams (like a tool that works for solo users but also has team features).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most B2B and multi-tenant applications leave personal accounts disabled. This ensures proper data isolation and team structure from the start. You should only enable personal accounts if your app serves both individual users and teams (like a tool that works for solo users but also has team features).
```
